1.26 release (#732)
charmed-kubernetes/kubernetes-docs: pages/k8s/release-notes.md

---

<!-- AUTOGENERATE RELEASE NOTES HERE -->
# 1.26

### December ??, 2022 - `charmed-kubernetes --channel 1.26/stable` 

> The release bundle can also be [downloaded here](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/charmed-kubernetes/bundle/main/releases/1.26/bundle.yaml).

Reviewer: @addyess i can't remember how we make the bundle subdirs; is that a manual copy or does something in the release process do it for us?  I ask because currently this link is 404.

Author: The addyess bot does it when we have a bundle. I don't think this is a blocker as long as we remember to actually do it - there is plenty of delay in actually getting the site updated and more than enough time to paste files into the repo

## What's new

- Ubuntu 22.04 default series

Ubuntu 22.04 is now the default series for new deployments of Charmed
Kubernetes.

Ubuntu 20.04 remains fully supported, but is no longer the default series.

Ubuntu 18.04 is no longer supported. For existing clusters still running Ubuntu
18.04, it is recommended to perform a series upgrade to Ubuntu 20.04 before
upgrading to Charmed Kubernetes 1.26.

- Kube-OVN BGP support

The Kube-OVN charm's new `bgp-speakers` config option makes it possible to peer
Kubernetes nodes with external BGP routers and exchange routing information for
Kube-OVN subnets. This makes it possible to access pod IPs directly from
external networks.

- Kube-OVN traffic mirroring

The new `enable-global-mirror` and `mirror-iface` config options make it
possible to configure traffic mirroring for Kube-OVN. When configured, Kube-OVN
will mirror pod network traffic to a network interface on each Kubernetes node,
making it easier to observe pod network traffic with tools such as tcpdump.

> - MetalLB architecture support
> 
> The metallb-controller and metallb-speaker charms can now run on amd64, arm,
> arm64, ppc64le, and s390x hosts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- MetalLB enhancements

The metallb-controller and metallb-speaker charms have been upgraded to
v0.12 and can now run on amd64, arm, arm64, ppc64le, and s390x hosts.
```

## Component Versions

### Charm/Addons pinned versions
- kube-ovn 1.10.4
- calico 3.21.4
- cephcsi 3.7.2
- cinder-csi-plugin 1.25.3
- coredns 1.9.4
- ingress-nginx 1.2.0
- k8s-keystone-auth 1.25.3
- kube-state-metrics 2.6.0
- kubernetes-dashboard 2.7.0
- openstack-cloud-controller-manager 1.25.3

### Charm default versions
- cloud-provider-vsphere 1.24
- vsphere-csi-driver 2.6.0
- cloud-provider-azure 1.25.0
- azuredisk-csi-driver 1.23.0
 
## Fixes

A list of bug fixes and other minor feature updates in this release can be found at
[the launchpad milestone page for 1.26](https://launchpad.net/charmed-kubernetes/+milestone/1.26).

## Notes and Known Issues

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

A list of issues to be fixed in the first 1.26 maintenance release can be found at
[the launchpad milestone page for 1.26+ck1](https://launchpad.net/charmed-kubernetes/+milestone/1.26+ck1).
```
